# Color-Quantization-Dithering
## Descrption
The purpose of this project was to replicate and experiment with a popular post-processing (and sometimes pre-processing) effect in video games to pixelate the scene. This effect is most well-known from the award winning game Dead Cells where it was utilized to render out 3D models and animations as 2D pixel art sprites and sprite sheets for efficient animation however, it is also useful as a stylistic post-processing effect in several other games as well. As such, our goal was to replicate this effect not only for its original intended use, but also to serve as an artistic finish for photographs, most notably those of scenic landscapes and backgrounds.

## Usage & Results
To use the algorithm simply add your image to the images folder and then change the image directory in `main.py` In addition, you can alter the different constant parameters in `main.py` to test how they change the different outputs of your image. It's important to note that resize factor should only be a power of two for best results though. The algorithm also requires a palette parameter. Although, since all steps of the pipeline are saved in the results folder you can just use one of the default palettes provided in the palettes folder and ignore the final output. The file `fix.py` in code should also assist you in creating your own color palette image if you desire however, you can also just replace the numpy array for `new_colors` in `main.py` to consist of the colors in your color palette (assumign RGB format) if you would like to experiment. Please note the assumpts at the top of `main.py` as well for useage. Some example results are included in `/Results/` however it is important to note that any images contained under folders named after a single step of the pipeline rather than an input image (i.e. `/Results/dithering/`) contains example images of a certain pipeline step occurring directly on the input image and not midway through the pipeline. The idea for this program was taken from Acerola from the video at this [link](https://youtu.be/8wOUe32Pt-E?si=XNe3qiIK_sgqqSgI).

## Contributors
- Aurora Jitrskul (@ajitrskul)
